# An-analysis-of-CPD-in-computing
## What is CPD? ##
CPD stands for continuous professional development, this describes the process of keeping track of the development of skills, knowledge and experience that an individual gains formally and informally. In other words it is a record of a professional's progress in their respective field.
## Why is it important? ##
Use of CPD makes sure that you can maintain the capabilities needed for the field and keeping up those capabilities with others in the same field. CPD also ensures that you enhance your skills when delivering your service to customers, clients and the community. Additionally CPD keeps your knowledge relevant and up to date, this is because using CPD makes you more aware of the changing trends and what direction of change your profession is heading. CPD also helps you continue to be important to your collegues, as CPD helps you be more effective in the workplace. Your increased effectiveness can help you advance in your career, and even transition into leadership positions. Finally CPD helps build public and individual confidence of you as a professional, as it provides evidence that you have a deep understanding of your field of expertise.
## Evidence Criteria for effective CPD ##
One method of maintaining effective CPD is creating schedules for given tasks, this can improve an individuals time management skills and ensure that they are keeping up to date with their tasks. Another advantage of this method is that it shows collegues and clients how much effort you are putting into certain tasks. However weaknesses of this method are that it can be time consuming to make schedules, which can take away time from working or honing certain skills. Another weakness is that schedules can be inaccurate, as certain tasks may take longer than previously expected, which then affects the timing of other tasks in your schedule that you would have to account for. Another method of maintaining effective CPD is taking part in education courses related to your profession. Advatages of this method are that the course will take place in a controlled environment meaning you can focus on improving your skills and knowledge. Another advantage is that you will be working with other people who are interested in your field, meaning you can share ideas and learn parts of your field you were not familiar with. However disadvatages of this method is that courses are very time consuming, which could intefere with the work you do. Another disadvantage is that education courses can be expensive depending on which courses you are doing. Finally another way of maintaining effective CPD is to read articles about your profession, an advantage of this means that you are up to date with the trends of your field as you will be up to date with the events happening in the field. Another advantage of this method is that there is oppurtunity for you to find new information related to your field, strengthening your knowledge and skills of your profession. However a disadvantage of using this method is that you are at risk of reading articles that provide false information, so to reduce this risk you should make sure you are reading articles from a reputable source.
